# At

**AT**, _preposition_ \[Latin ad. _at_ ad and to, if not radically the same word often coincide in signification; Heb to come, to a approach. Hence it primarily denotes presence, meeting, nearness, direction towards.\]

In general, _at_ denotes nearness, or presents; as _at_ the ninth hour, _at_ the house; but it is less definite than in or on; _at_ the house, may be in or near the house. It denotes also towards, versus; as, to aim an arrow _at_ a mark.

From this original import are derived all the various uses of _at_ _at_ the sight, is with, present, or coming the sight; _at_ this news, present the news, on or with the approach or arrival of this news. _at_ peace, _at_ war, in a state of peace or war, peace or war, in a state of peace or war, peace or war existing, being present; _at_ ease, _at_ play, _at_ a loss, etc. convey the like idea. _at_ arms, furnished with arms, bearing arms present with arms; _at_ hand, within reach of the hand, and therefore near; _at_ my cost, with my cost; _at_ his suit, by or with his suit; _at_ this declaration, he rose from his seat, that is present, or coming this declaration; whence results the idea in consequence of it. _at_ his command, is either under his command, that is, literally, coming or being come his command, in the power of, or in consequence of it. He is good _at_ engraving, _at_ husbandry; that is, in performing that business. He deserves well _at_ our hands; that is, from us. The peculiar phrases in which this word occurs, with appropriate significations, are numerous. _at_ first, _at_ last, _at_ least, _at_ best, _at_ the worst, _at_ the highest or lowest, are phrases in which some noun is implied; as, _at_ the first time or beginning; _at_ the last time, or point of time; _at_ the least or best degree, etc.; all denoting an extreme point or superlative degree. _at_ all, is in any manner or degree.

**AT** is sometimes used for to, or towards, noting progression or direction; as, he aims _at_ perfection; he makes or runs _at_ him, or points _at_ him. In this phrase, he longs to be _at_ him, _at_ has its general sense of approaching, or present, or with, in contest or attack.