# Seeing

**SEE'ING**, _participle present tense_ \[from _see_.\] Perceiving by the eye; knowing; understanding; observing; beholding.

\[_Note_. This participle appears to be used indefinitely, or without direct reference to a person or persons. 'Wherefore come ye to me, _seeing_ ye hate me.?' [[Genesis 26#27|Genesis 26:27]]. That is, since, or the fact being that or thus; because that. In this form of phraseology, _that_ is understood or implied after _seeing_; why come ye to me, _seeing that_, ye hate me? The resolution of the phrase or sentence is, ye hate me; that fact being seen or known by you, why come ye to me? or why come you to me, ye _seeing_ \[knowing\] that fact which follows, viz. ye hate me. In this case, _seeing_ retains its participial character, although its relation to the pronoun is somewhat obscured. Originally, _seeing_, in this use, had direct relation to the speaker or to some other person. 'Mow I know that thou fearest God, _seeing_ thou hast not witheld thy son.' [[Genesis 22#12|Genesis 22:12]]. Here _seeing_ refers to _I_, or according to the language of syntax, agrees or accords with _I_. I know thou fearest God, for I _see_ thou hast not withheld thine only son; I know thou fearest God by _seeing_, in consequence of _seeing_ this fact, thou hast not withheld thine only son. But the use of _seeing_ is extended to cases in which it cannot be referred to a specifec person or persons, in which cases it expresses the notoriety or admission of a fact in general, and is left, like the French _on_, in the phrases _on dit, on voit_, without application to any particular person.\]