# Steam

**STEAM**, _noun_

**1.** The vapor of water; or the elastic, aeriform fluid generated by heating water to the boiling point. When produced under the common atmospheric pressure, its elasticity is equivalent to the pressure, its elasticity is equivalent to the pressure of the atmosphere, and it is called low steam; but when heated in a confined state, its elastic force is rapidly augmented, and it is then called high _steam_ On the application of cold, _steam_ instantly returns to the state of water, and thus forms a sudden vacuum. From this property, and from the facility with which an elastic force is generated by means of _steam_ this constitutes a mechanical agent at once the most powerful and the most manageable, as is seen in the vast and multiplied uses of the _steam_ engine. _steam_ is invisible, and is to be distinguished from the cloud or mist which it forms in the air, that being water in a minute state of division, resulting from the condensation of _steam_

**2.** In popular use, the mist formed by condensed vapor.

**STEAM**, _verb intransitive_

**1.** To rise or pass off in vapor by means of heat; to fume.

Let the crude humors dance in heated brass, steaming with fire intense.

**2.** To send off visible vapor.

Ye mists that rise from steaming lake.

**3.** To pass off in visible vapor.

The dissolved amber--steamed away into the air.

**STEAM**, _verb transitive_

**1.** To exhale; to evaporate. \[Not much used.\]

**2.** To expose to steam; to apply _steam_ to for softening, dressing or preparing; as, to _steam_ cloth; to _steam_ potatoes instead of boiling the; to _steam_ food for cattle.